---
layout: post
title: OpenCO2Monitor collaboration
date: '2009-08-25T01:51:00.000-07:00'
author: Trystan Lea
categories: 
modified_time: '2009-08-25T02:54:03.661-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-2472065242652647619.post-433508705609055103
blogger_orig_url: http://openenergymonitor.blogspot.com/2009/08/openco2monitor-collaboration.html
---

A couple of days ago I was contacted by <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_0">Ronic</span> Concepcion and  <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_1">Ymreb</span> <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_2">Momville</span> from the University Southeastern Philippines who are undertaking a technical research project called <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_3">OpenCO</span>2Monitor as a part of their BS Information Technology degrees.<br /><br />Their project will be a collaboration with this project using the <a href="http://openenergymonitor.org/emon/node/28">Mains AC:Non-invasive method</a> of energy monitoring to supply energy consumption information to their software.<br /><br />From their blog: <a href="http://openco2monitor.exofire.net/">http://openco2monitor.exofire.net</a><blockquote>"<span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_4">OpenCO</span>2Monitor is an open source software which is capable of monitoring CO2 emissions on a house/building. When the emitted CO2 reaches danger levels, the software will automatically sound an alarm and show a message dialog on the computer screen tell the user what to do.<br /><br /><span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_5">OpenCO</span>2Monitor is not only capable of monitoring CO2 levels but also monitoring the electric energy consumption of a house/building. It is also capable of showing your current monthly bill based on the Davao Light and Power Company generation charge per kilowatt hour.<br /><br /><span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_6">OpenCO</span>2Monitor also shows how many number of full grown trees a house/building should have in its surroundings to offset its CO2 Emissions. It also displays the house/building’s current contribution to temperature rise.<br /><br /><span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_7">OpenCO</span>2Monitor uses the Mains AC:Non-invasive method from <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_8">OpenEnergyMonitor</span>.org to read the <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_9">Kwh</span> Usage of a house/building."<br /></blockquote>All really useful information that aims to help the user to  "save money and energy while lessening their contribution to greenhouse gasses."